reviews/reviewer4-response.md, before:

# Response to reviewer 4

>1. Several key quantities and symbols such as Cp and U are used in the introduction prior to their definitions later in the manuscript. Please define quantities and symbols near first instance of use.



>2. Results are presented and discussed with those from a previous study of a similar turbine. For ease of comparison, please add the UNH-RVAT parameters to Table 2.

The UNH-RVAT parameters have been added to Table 2.

>3. It would be helpful to see Figure 8 with the UNH-RVAT results on the same axes or as additional plots, as they are referred to in the results section and in the conclusions.



>4. Virtual camber of blades is discussed in the results section, where it is suggested it plays a role in Re-convergence. Reference 9 is used here, which links to a data repository. The claims using this reference are therefore hard to verity. Is there an additional source to back this up?

Thanks for catching this, as it was an incorrect reference. The text has been
modified to reference the correct study.

>5. Figure 10 shows power losses due to strut drag, both plotted as function of tip-speed ratio. Have you confirmed these losses collapse with TSR? i.e., for equal TSR but different combinations of U and $\omega$, do you get the same result? Similarly, how is TSR defined for a ‘stationary’ test?

These strut drag measurements were only performed at a tow speed of 1 m/s, a
detail which has been added to the manuscript. There will be some Reynolds
number dependence of these losses, following from the Reynolds number effects on
the drag of a cylinder, but we have not investigated that here. We expect that
the absolute values of the losses would change, but their scaling behavior with
$\lambda$ should not change significantly.

We computed $C_P$ and TSR using the same reference velocity as for the towed
case (1 m/s). This detail has been added to the text.

Commit message:

Add definitions for symbols near where they're first used

reviews/reviewer4-response.md, after:

# Response to reviewer 4

>1. Several key quantities and symbols such as Cp and U are used in the introduction prior to their definitions later in the manuscript. Please define quantities and symbols near first instance of use.

Definitions for these symbols have been added near where they are first used in
the text.

>2. Results are presented and discussed with those from a previous study of a similar turbine. For ease of comparison, please add the UNH-RVAT parameters to Table 2.

The UNH-RVAT parameters have been added to Table 2.

>3. It would be helpful to see Figure 8 with the UNH-RVAT results on the same axes or as additional plots, as they are referred to in the results section and in the conclusions.



>4. Virtual camber of blades is discussed in the results section, where it is suggested it plays a role in Re-convergence. Reference 9 is used here, which links to a data repository. The claims using this reference are therefore hard to verity. Is there an additional source to back this up?

Thanks for catching this, as it was an incorrect reference. The text has been
modified to reference the correct study.

>5. Figure 10 shows power losses due to strut drag, both plotted as function of tip-speed ratio. Have you confirmed these losses collapse with TSR? i.e., for equal TSR but different combinations of U and $\omega$, do you get the same result? Similarly, how is TSR defined for a ‘stationary’ test?

These strut drag measurements were only performed at a tow speed of 1 m/s, a
detail which has been added to the manuscript. There will be some Reynolds
number dependence of these losses, following from the Reynolds number effects on
the drag of a cylinder, but we have not investigated that here. We expect that
the absolute values of the losses would change, but their scaling behavior with
$\lambda$ should not change significantly.

We computed $C_P$ and TSR using the same reference velocity as for the towed
case (1 m/s). This detail has been added to the text.
